---
title: Traffic Spy and Obama for America
date: 2013-03-08 08:56 -07:00
tags:
---

TrafficSpy is done and  I couldn't be more glad. Out of all of the projects I have had so far this has been the one that has had the most problems crop up throughout it. We had to move large chunks of code around and refactor it a few times to get the database working (twice), get the tests working again(also twice) and to make the server respond to shotgun, the tests, a web browser and the curl command at the bash prompt (maybe four times, I lost count). I think that a good bit of these problems come from not knowing how to set the Sinatra up exactly when we started on the project. It is a useful tool and if I were to redo the program now I could get through it much more quickly and with less trouble. I think it has a place as a tool for making fairly simple web apps but it probably could do lots more if I were to push its limits.       
        
This week we also had the Obama for America tech team come to Galvanize to present on the it system that they created to help Obama get reelected in 2012. They talked about all of the apps they made for the volunteers and how they tested them so that they would work on election day. One big thing I think they did really well was the testing. They were so big on testing and making sure that they apps would fail gracefully when it failed that they went to some extremes to made sure it would work on election day. One of the panelist was talking about how he told the staff what tests he was going to run and how he was going to make the system fail in a demo of of the app. The plan was for him to make certain things fail at certain times to test the app to see if it would be ready for the big event. Then when the time came for him to start testing (breaking) things he started off by breaking somethings that were completely different than what he had said he would. The idea was failures can't always be foreseen, deal with it. I think that was particularly brilliant move for a system that had to scale massively for a short period of time without catastrophic failure and is a practice I could see myself implementing. Thing is I would have to implement it outside of politics as there is no way I am helping out on a campaign for 12 hours a day, 7 days a week for months on end to get someone elected.       
         
As for the big picture this week, I think the most difficult thing for my team (and most teams) has been working with the databases. I sort of get how they work and I can certainly use them but I don't pretend to really understand them. I feel like someone who knows how to drive a car but then has to call the mechanic every time I get a flat tire (which we got several of this week).    
       
We also worked a bit with the project management system Pivotal Tracker a bit this week but, like most teams, stopped using it after a while. I think that the reason we stopped using it was that it didn't seem to add to how we were getting things done and amongst so many other things to take care of it just seemed like an easy thing to let go and not have to think about.      
        
-John Maddux
