---
title: Friday Restrospective - Apr 12th
date: 2013-04-12 11:11 -06:00
tags:
---

  This week I met my mentor Joshua Wehner (@jaw6) via Skype. He currently works for Living Social but used to work at Shopify which is a great way to start off because our project this week is a lightweight clone of Shopify (it is called Son of Store Engine). He had great insight into our project and he and I went over what we having been doing here at gSchool with him and what I am doing on our current project. We talked about how we are using legacy code from out last project store engine and how I could go about changing what had been a one store, Oregon Trail themed project into a series of stores that could sell whatever products that the store owner would want. The basic process that we went over was how to make the products and categories appear as if they were different stores while all sharing the same database. Josh is great at pointing out lots of little ways that he would have done things differently while at the same time talking about the big ways that he would make decisions on the architecture of the program which is helpful because this is a more complex project than we have tackled before.
  On this project I am working on a four person team (up from three last time) and this has changed the workflow. In the larger group we have all been much more disciplined about using the tracker tools to keep our workflow in sync than we were in the smaller teams. We also use our Flowdock chatrooms more as a communication tool rather than just a store of information to let us help each other even when we are programming from different locations. This is important as we have a lot of ground to cover and can’t be duplicating each others work. This is a 'legacy' project that happened to be the project that I was working on before so I ended being the first point of contact when someone doesn't understand why we did something a certain way. Actually it has been a bit enlightening as I question lots of the decisions we made before and why I did it that way in my old project. I get to compare the old project to different (and often better) ways of doing things and this helps me learn how to structure programs in a better way. I am doing more of the backend work in this team which is like some of the other projects that I have worked on but not what I always do. I usually like to work back to front on whatever section that I am working in so that I can not only make it go but also see the results of what I am doing. The parts about Rails that get me the most are how to refactor some of the code that I have written when I want to make a really big change. Sometimes I will make a decision and then come back to it later after some more work and want to make big changed to how it works. If it is just a little change then I don't have a problem refactoring it but with big changes you have to break lots of tests at once and it becomes a whole big project. I guess this is why good testing is important. 

  -John Maddux
